Conversion Rate by Age:

As we can see on the plot, 60+ age people responded better to the bank marketing campaign compared to the other age groups.


Conversions by age group and marital status

In the groups from 30 to 70+ age, married people are more likely to convert (could be because they are the majority in these age groups). People with the "single" marital status convert better in the age group {20, 30].

Conversions by job

Students and retired people have a higher conversion rate than other "job" groups. The blue-collar group has the lowest conversion rate.


Conversions by education

The highest conversion rate in the "illiterate" group. But because there are only 18 illiterate clients, I am not going to recommend focusing on this group. "University degree" has a higher than average conversion rate, so I would suggest focusing on this group. Also, I would recommend limit marketing efforts on groups "basic.6y" and "basic.9y".


Conversions by having or not a credit in default

So if a client doesn't have a credit, the one is more likely to subscribe to a term deposit.


Conversions by having a housing loan and a personal loan

Clients who have a housing loan or don't have a personal loan convert slightly better.


Conversions by the last contact month of a year

People who were contacted last time in March, December, September, and October convert much better than others.


Conversions by the last contact day of a week

The conversion rate is higher if the clients were contacted on Thursday, Tuesday, and Wednesday.


Conversions by the outcome of the previous campaign

Obviously, if the previous campaign outcome was successful (the bank probably earned some loyalty), this campaign converted better as well.


Summarizing recommendations for the bank

During the Bank Marketing Campaigns Dataset analysis, I found some interesting insights that can be used for improving a similar marketing campaign, launching new campaigns, and addressing the Bank's marketing strategy.


Recommendations for the Sales Department (Call Center)

Always contact clients by cellphone when possible
Perform most calls (campaigns) during these months: March, December, September, and October
Plan most calls to clients on Thursday, Tuesday, Wednesday
Long phone conversations perform better, so try to keep a conversation going as much as you can
18 is probably the max number of calls to a single client during a campaign
